project description

1. large demand of health management website has already exists

2. Most of the related website are about fitness but not about how to be healthy

3. More, they don't have forum.

4. lots of unhealthy people and the number is increasing

5. no centralised

With the number of unhealthy people growing up; obesity, diabetes, blood diseases, heart 
problem and all those illnesses starting to attack humans in an earlier stage than before;
people nowadays start to worry and pay more attention to health problems. What people
tend to do to get more health knowledges apart from learning in school now is try to search
on-line. Though, there are lots of information on the internet, there's not yet a centralised
place where you can easily get resources without scanning though hundreds of pages using Google.
It is time and energy consuming and also frustrating after hours of searching and you still
can't find the answer to the problem you are looking for and this happens all the time.

In order to meet people's demand, here comes our great project. 
We did the searching on line and couldn't find any website is about health management
and the website we are going to build will be the one which focuses on 
how to be healthy but not just how to keep fit. 
With the health advisor we will be providing, one can check the nutrients information
of almost any kind of food to see if it contains anything one does or does not want  
and then decide if he/she really wants to eat it. One can also use our product to make 
weekly diet plan. Adding food he/she wants to eat next week to the plan or removing food
from the plan are the basic functionalities. Diet planner is the next feature we are 
going to provide, which is basically adding other food automatically with some calculations
to balance the nutritions and make a diet plan.

A forum is also going to be provided, so that people can post their questions and somebody
else can answer or comment on it. Just like how StackOverflow is to us programmers but with
a little difference; anything that is health related and is positive will be allowed to post
on the forum, even those general discussion. It will be a platform for people caring about 
the health to gather around and help each other. One of the biggest headaches about the forums
is the format of comments. We want the users to communicate or even argue freely but we also 
don't want the argument to bother people who just want to find the answers as quick as possible.
We've discussed a lot of different formats; is it better to nest the comments or just state 
everything out one after one like the basic forums; are we going to nest it only once like 
StackOverflow or as many times as needed; etc. At this stage we decided on collapse comments to 
comments when first open the page, which we will talk about in detail later, but our decision 
might change overtime if we could come up with a better solution.

After those two features we are planning to add bar code scanner to our product, which could 
scan the bar-code from the food and show not only manufacturer information but also basic 
nutrition information as well. 

Our project is going to be a fairly big projects. It is not feasible to build up every feature
and every detail in one go, so we just focus on two main feature at this stage. Two of us are
working on the forum now and the other three are working on the diet planner and nutritions 
searching. Inside of each subgroup everybody works on one or two different tasks, back-end,
front-end, database and API. The biggest internal dependency is decision making. As we are taking
different subjects, it is not possible to spend lots of time for us to sit down and work together.
That is why we agreed on two meetings per week to communicate and discuss together to keep our work
consistent with each other's.

Unlike the internal dependency, there are many external constraints to our product. Since there are
lots of JavaScript included in our website, we need to ensure it works on most of the browsers and if
not, a proper alternative must be available. In terms of the nutrition information, we need to make 
sure the data source can be trusted. The API we are using for the data resources is the one of USDA 
(Unites States Department of Agriculture), which is free and reliable as it is from US government 
database. For the bar-code scanner feature, the devices users will be using will have to have camera
or anything that can scan the code.
